---
layout: post
title: "Weekly notes"
---

* [10 Years of Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/2025/12/09/10-years): Let's encrypt is just an incredible movement, philosophy and platform that really brought encryption to the web for everyone.
* [Seven Years of Firecracker](https://brooker.co.za/blog/2025/09/18/firecracker): Firecracker powers lambda and more recently the new dsql managed database, and amazon agent core! Tiny, super efficient virtual machines. Lovely tech.
* [The hidden trade-offs of fine-grained progressive rollouts](https://surfingcomplexity.blog/2025/09/13/the-hidden-trade-offs-of-fine-grained-progressive-rollouts/): It's harder to see issues in a rollout sometimes when it progresses slowly. When you move quicker you can see larger abnormalities. Fast and slow can be used together to choose failure domains where a deployment impacts a small number of users first and also enough users such that you can really get a sense of whether something is healthy or not.
* [Streamlining Security Investigations with Agents](https://slack.engineering/streamlining-security-investigations-with-agents/): Slack talks about using the 'super agent' / 'director + subordinates' pattern to help analyze security events. Needle-in-a-haystack type problems may be the perfect use case for agents as we currently think of them.
* [Bluesky chat between liz fong-jones and others about utility of llms](https://bsky.app/profile/sven.blacksky.app/post/3magvraf66k2r): This was a fun one. I agree with several of the fundamental ideas here:
  * Passing down skills from senior to junior engineers through mentorship is important
  * The llm is a tool that requires the operator to know what they're about using skills and past experience
  * There are probably already some people doing well (eg aws that is selling access to compute for training and inference)
  * We probably won't completely crash out of this bubble in the way crypto currency did
  * It's hard to measure impact of the tool now (we have "vibes" about how people are "feeling")
    * There are a lot of people who want you to think the results are much more concrete
