---
layout: post
title: "Links: Platform teams Adrian Cockcroft, remote work spry fox"
---

* [Platform Engineering Teams Done Right](https://adrianco.medium.com/platform-engineering-teams-done-right-b3b3d4a8ad23): Platform teams at netflix. There were several in Adrian's mind working at different layers of the stack. (Infra, o/s+networking, middleware, application tooling, etc.) Neat characterization. As always this separation of responsibilities very much depends on context, and how a business thinks about this stuff. (Size often matters and velocity of change)
* [How Spry Fox works](https://m.leskowsky.net/@Danc@mastodon.gamedev.place/110537911977203832): Love these ideas around remote work so much. I think we eventually found a few but there are others here we can try at work. Want to copy all this advice into one place. See below:

> Some useful remote work things we do at Spry Fox
> 1. Split the team up into cross-functional strike teams with their own channel. Focuses conversation / reduces noise.
> 2. Try to reduce private messages. Public conversation keeps more people on the same page.
> 3. Pin a notes doc at the top of the strike team channel. Use it for every meeting. No searching for links.
> 4. Design AMA channel: Instead of answering the same vision question 10 times, everyone sees the answer.
> 5. Facilitators as a skillset. Is someone watching out for conversations getting off the rails? Noting multiple topics happening at once? And summarizing? Breaking out into a huddle when things are stalling?
> 6. Ending meetings early. If we are done the agenda we stop. Most standard meetings end 30 minutes early.
> 7. In the time left after a public meeting, ask people if they want to use it for small breakouts. They've got time, so they can use it in a smaller, project-based fashion if needed.
> 8. Async updates. No need to do daily huddles. Or even status meetings. Put it in the doc.
> 9. Culture of raising a flag if blocked or confused. It is okay to ask for help! That's how to keep things moving.
> 10. We don't schedule meetings for the full hour or half hours. Leave 10 minutes at the end so people's brains can relax. HUGE improvement in stress levels. Scientifically backed! https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/worklab/work-trend-index/brain-research

[Source](https://m.leskowsky.net/@Danc@mastodon.gamedev.place/110537868691166013)