---
layout: post
title: "Weekly notes"
---

* [How to Scale Your Impact at the Staff-Plus Level](https://www.infoq.com/articles/scale-impact-staff-plus/?trk=public_post_comment-text): Things to avoid and get better at in here. Delegation, cross team communication, and making something nebulous and ambiguous more concrete. Emphasis on helping to identify points of leverage for the team and organization becomes important here too.

## Quote post

> I do not have confidence in "our technology is totally profitable on any reasonable timescale" when the answer to "how do we afford it" is "we turn the solar system into computronium and use the entire sun as an energy source for it" even if it were possible without breaking the laws of physics. - [Liz Fong-Jones](https://bsky.app/profile/lizthegrey.com/post/3lwpx2h4bpk26)
> 
> A corollary is that all of the over-hyped/speculative use cases of GenAI are not going to take off, because the price is going to have to rise. only the cases that it's worth spending thousands of dollars a month for are going to survive. making crappy derivative art? not one of those use cases.
> 
> (The things that already are possible with a local LLM are probably fine as is, those have a reasonable power budget. but in general, what I said stands about LLMs being a tool for trained professionals only, not for consumer use)

Nice little thread about value vs promise vs cost of llms. It's not clear yet that we're going to be able to get out of the current llm craze what certain people have put in.