---
layout: post
title: "Weekly notes"
---

- [None Yet. What does incident management look like on day 1](https://read.zerosevzero.com/p/none-yet):
  Brilliant. Small, simple process that makes for a good starting point for a
  company.
    - Declare
        - Call the incident
        - Call it when you need more eyes (not severity)
        - Waiting means you might start working the problem later than you could
          have
    - Stop regular work
        - People working an incident need to focus on recovery
    - Who
        - One person at a time for however long the team agrees
    - Comms
        - One person makes the company aware of what is known, what we're doing
          and when to expect another update
    - After
        - Learning
            - What happened
            - What was learned
            - What will change to avoid or help recover from this kind of
              incident
        - Write down action items and add to the backlog
    - Reporting
        - Spreadsheet
            - Date
            - Duration
            - What broke
            - What fixed it
    - Later
        - Severity
        - Commander
        - Blameless

- [Rewriting Bun in Rust](https://bun.com/blog/bun-in-rust#claude-rewrite-bun-in-rust):
  Big port of bun from zig to rust implementation languages at incredible
  expense by Anthropic. Makes for an exciting case study, but many questions
  remain: how many bugs are in the new millions of lines codebase? What's the
  quality of the resulting rust code? What about safety? It doesn't seem like
  this kind of usage is going to be accessible for people not-Anthropic or with
  massive amounts of money to burn on an experiment like this. $160,000 in api
  use. In other news, open weight models are apparently 6-12 months behind
  frontier models and also improving, so there will be alternatives to openai and
  anthropic in the future for this kind of tool it seems like ...
