---
layout: post
title: "Weekly notes"
---

* [Assessing Claude Mythos Preview’s cybersecurity capabilities](https://red.anthropic.com/2026/mythos-preview/):
  Preview model from anthropic that looks to be really good at finding security vulnerabilities. Terrifyingly good.

I pulled out a quote below from the anthropic piece relating to how to get better at security bug finding using frontier
models and where to start. Ignoring what's possible isn't going to be a good strategy.

It's not clear to me whether the llm is good at finding certain classes of bugs (eg Memory corruption in c) or if we're
looking at a more general purpose bug finder ...

> Gaining practice with using language models for bugfinding is worthwhile, whether it’s with Opus 4.6 or another
> frontier model. We believe that language models will be an important defensive tool, and that Mythos Preview shows the
> value of understanding how to use them effectively for cyber defense is only going to increase—markedly.
>
> Think beyond vulnerability finding. Frontier models can also accelerate defensive work in many other ways. For
> example, they can:
>
> * Provide a first-round triage to evaluate the correctness and severity of bug reports;
> * De-duplicate bug reports and otherwise help with the triage processes;
> * Assist in writing reproduction steps for vulnerability reports;
> * Write initial patch proposals for bug reports;
> * Analyze cloud environments for misconfigurations;
> * Aid engineers in reviewing pull requests for security bugs;
> * Accelerate migrations from legacy systems to more secure ones;
